Vehicle-Bridge Interaction model in 2 dimensions (VBI-2D) by Daniel Cantero

With this software, the user can easily define a traffic event with several vehicles crossing a bridge. The simulation includes the effects of road profile irregularities and the interaction between vehicle(s) and bridge. The software is designed to allow the user to define a huge range of possibilities. The traffic event can be composed of several vehicles, each represented by different models. The user can specify the vehicle(s) initial position, velocity, and acceleration. These vehicles travel on a road profile, which can be generated according to standards, given a specific geometry, or loaded from existing profiles. The bridge is modelled as a beam using a Finite Element formulation. It is possible to define multiple number and types of boundary conditions. The software even allows the representation of damage in the structure or supports. The whole vehicle-bridge system is solved numerically by direct integration. The results of the simulation are stored in variables and can easily be retrieved by the user. The software also offers a range of calculation options and graphical outputs.

The document in "Documentation/User guide.pdf" provides a detailed description of each aspect in the model (Vehicle, Profile, Bridge, Calculation) together with relevant options, comments, and recommendations. Then it guides the user on how to use the software for the first time. The document finishes with a compendium of relevant comments regarding various aspects of the problem implementation. Note, however, that this document provides little or no explanation of the underlying calculations.

The program is written in Matlab. It relies on the use of a variable type called “structures”. The user needs to be familiar with this variable type before running the program.
